# Astro 528, Lab 4

Before starting this lab, make sure you've successfully gotten setup to use git, Julia and Pluto.
The first lab contained detailed instructions for using the Jupyter Lab server to work with Pluto notebooks.  

Remember, that you need follow the provided link to create your own private copy of this lab's repository on GitHub.com.   See the
[help on the course website](https://psuastro528.github.io/Fall2025/tips/labs/) for instructions on cloning, commiting, pushing and reviewing your work.

## Exercise 1:  Auto-Differentiation & Optimization
#### Goals:
- Compute derivatives and gradients via autodifferentiation.
- Compare accuracy and efficiency of optimization algorithms (gradient-free vs numerical gradients vs gradients via autodiff)
- Explore how cost of optimization algorithms scales with number of dimensions
- Compare efficiency of optimization algorithms on "easy" and "hard" target functions

From a Pluto session, work through ex1.jl
When you're done with exercise 1, please add, commit and push the figures generated by your notebooks with
`git add ex1*.png; git commit -m "add figs"; git push`
This will allow the instructor and TA to see the same figures you saw when reading your responces.  
But please (try to) save this step for once you've finished, so you don't add many versions of your figures to your repository.

## Exercise 2: Probabilistic Programming Languages
#### Goals:  
- Construct a model using the [Turing.jl](https://turing.ml/stable/) Probabilistic Programming Language
- Sample from prior and posterior of model

From a Pluto session, work through ex2.jl
When you're done with exercise 1, please add, commit and push the figures generated by your notebooks with
`git add ex1*.png; git commit -m "add figs"; git push`
This will allow the instructor and TA to see the same figures you saw when reading your responces.  
But please (try to) save this step for once you've finished, so you don't add many versions of your figures to your repository.


